feat: add bank account OOP lab (#56799)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/25-front-end-development/lab-bank-account-manager/6718d2d59337c822ecb697ff.md

---
id: 6718d2d59337c822ecb697ff
title: Build a Bank Account Management Program
challengeType: 14
dashedName: build-a-bank-account-management-program
---

# --description--

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab. 

**User Stories:**

> 1. You should define a class named `BankAccount` with a constructor that takes `balance` as parameter. The constructor should set the default `balance` to `0`and initialize an empty array named `transactions` to store transaction records as objects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You should define a class named `BankAccount` with a constructor that takes `balance` as a parameter. The constructor should set the `balance` to `0` if no value is provided and initialize an empty array named `transactions` to store transaction records as objects.
```

Author: The constructor would always set balance to `0` and doesn't accept other values.

> 2. The `transactions` object defined inside the `BankAccount` constructor should be able to take two properties: `type` and `amount`. The `type` property should be either `deposit` or `withdraw`, and the `amount` property should be the amount deposited or withdrawn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Each transaction stored in the `transactions` array should be an object with two properties: `type` and `amount`. The `type` property should be either `deposit` or `withdraw`, and the `amount` property should be the amount deposited or withdrawn.
```

Reviewer: I think transactions is an array and not an object?

> 3. Inside the `BankAccount` class, you should define a method named `updateBalance` that updates the balance according to the type of transaction. If the transaction type is `deposit`, it should add the amount to the balance. If the transaction type is `withdraw`, it should subtract the amount from the balance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Inside the `BankAccount` class, you should define a method named `updateBalance` that updates the balance using the `transactions` list, according to the type of transaction. If the transaction type is `deposit`, it should add the amount to the balance. If the transaction type is `withdraw`, it should subtract the amount from the balance.
```

I was really confused on what this method should do, there was no mention on using the list of all transactions to calculate the balance.

Author: The transactions is not a list, but there is a `transaction` array that has 2 types of transactions: `deposit` and `withdraw`.

> 3. Inside the `BankAccount` class, you should define a method named `updateBalance` that updates the balance according to the type of transaction. If the transaction type is `deposit`, it should add the amount to the balance. If the transaction type is `withdraw`, it should subtract the amount from the balance.

Author: This is being tested inside `withdraw()` and `deposit()`. Should I still write separate tests?

> 3. Inside the `BankAccount` class, You should define a method named `updateBalance` that updates the balance according to the type of transaction. If the transaction type is `deposit`, it should add the amount to the balance. If the transaction type is `withdraw`, it should subtract the amount from the balance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Inside the `BankAccount` class, you should define a method named `updateBalance` that updates the balance according to the type of transaction. If the transaction type is `deposit`, it should add the amount to the balance. If the transaction type is `withdraw`, it should subtract the amount from the balance.
```

> 4. You should define a method named `deposit` that takes the deposit amount as a parameter. This method should update the current balance according to deposits. When the deposit amount is greater than `0`, it should:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. You should define a method named `deposit` that takes the deposit amount as a parameter. When the deposit amount is greater than `0`, it should:
```

This part seems redundant. It says to update the balance below.

>    - Push a new object to the transactions array with a type of deposit and the amount deposited.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - Push a new object to the transactions array with a type of `deposit` and the amount deposited.
```

   - Update the balance.   
   - Return `"Successfully deposited $[amount]. New balance: $[balance]"`.

5. If the amount is less than or equal to `0`, the `deposit` method should return `"Deposit amount must be greater than zero."`.

6. You should define a method named `withdraw` that takes an amount as a parameter. This method should update the current balance according to withdrawals. When the amount to be withdrawn is greater than `0` and less than or equal to the current balance, it should:

>    - Push a new object to the transactions array with a type of withdraw and the amount withdrawn.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   - Push a new object to the transactions array with a type of `withdraw` and the amount withdrawn.
```

   - Update the balance.
   - Return `"Successfully withdrew $[amount]. New balance: $[balance]"`. 

7. In the `withdraw` method, when the amount to be withdrawn is less than or equal to `0` or greater than the current balance, it should return `"Insufficient balance or invalid amount."`.

> 8. You should define a method named `checkBalance` that returns the current balance in the format `"Current balance: $[balance]"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. You should define a method named `checkBalance` that returns the current balance in the format `"Current balance: ${balance}"`.
```

Author: I have used square brackets as placeholders here and not as template literals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. You should define a method named `checkBalance` that returns the current balance in the format `"Current balance: $<balance>"`.
```

I have seen in the curriculum most often the angular brackets to signal placeholder

Reviewer: I am a bit confused but let's go with the optimal option @zairahira

> 9. You should define a method named `listAllDeposits` that iterates through the transactions array and returns all deposits in the format `"Deposits: deposit,deposit,..."`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
9. You should define a method named `listAllDeposits` that iterates through the transactions array and returns all deposits in the format `"Deposits: amount,amount,..."`.
```

I think this makes it a little more clear.

> 10. You should define a method named `listAllWithdrawals` that iterates through the transactions array and returns all withdrawals in the format `"Withdrawals: withdrawal,withdrawal,..."`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
10. You should define a method named `listAllWithdrawals` that iterates through the transactions array and returns all withdrawals in the format `"Withdrawals: amount,amount,..."`.
```

same

assert.equal(myAccount.withdraw(150), "Successfully withdrew $150. New balance: $50")
```

When the account balance is `200`, `BankAccount.checkBalance()` should return `"Current balance: $200"`.

```js
const myAccount = new BankAccount();
myAccount.deposit(200);
assert.equal(myAccount.checkBalance(), "Current balance: $200")

// prevent hardcoding
myAccount.deposit(300);
assert.equal(myAccount.checkBalance(), "Current balance: $500")
```

When you deposit `10`, `35`, `90`, the `listAllDeposits` method should return `"Deposits: 10,35,90"`.

```js
const myAccount = new BankAccount();
myAccount.deposit(10);
myAccount.deposit(35);
myAccount.deposit(90);
assert.equal(myAccount.listAllDeposits(), "Deposits: 10,35,90")
```

When you withdraw `20`, `50`, `100`, the `listAllWithdrawals` method should return `"Withdrawals: 20,50,100"`.

```js
const myAccount = new BankAccount();
myAccount.deposit(500);

myAccount.withdraw(20);
myAccount.withdraw(50);
myAccount.withdraw(100);
assert.equal(myAccount.listAllWithdrawals(), "Withdrawals: 20,50,100")
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```js

```

# --solutions--

```js
class BankAccount {
    constructor(balance = 0) {

>       this.balance = balance;

Author: Makes sense 👍️
